---
layout: post
title:  "Sprint #2.5 - Daily Scrum #13"
date:   2019-08-01
categories: scrum
tags: tetris_ai
sprintID: 2.5
day: Thursday
objectives:
 - started researching how to create and deploy node modules
 - defined purpose and functions of npm, grunt and bower

---


<b>Product:</b> Tetris2P AI  
[Sprint Summary](/blog/projects/tetris-ai-sprint-2-5)

#### Daily Objectives

* Work towards making the project into a node module

#### Notes

I’m still confused on how to set up the module  
For now I should ignore the whole uh, node part? Or Ignore the client side javascript part?

[https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/62227/creating-a-class-library-in-javascript](https://codereview.stackexchange.com/questions/62227/creating-a-class-library-in-javascript)
* 'then use a package manager like Bower to concatenate and minify the files into something like sdk.js'

I’m still super confused :)  
For mainloop.js:

1. Uses npm install, so the entire github is a node_module
* also installs other dependencies listed in package.json
2. Uses grunt to run a new build, grunt lint for code style checks
* uses the ‘Uglify’ plugin to minify the code
* Also uses jshint, jscs, and jsduck plugins

Let’s look up what is grunt.  
"Grunt is a JavaScript task runner, a tool used to automatically perform frequent tasks such as minification, compilation, unit testing, and linting. It uses a command-line interface to run custom tasks defined in a file (known as a Gruntfile). Grunt was created by Ben Alman and is written in Node.js. It is distributed via npm. As of September 2016, there were more than 5,000 plugins available in the Grunt ecosystem."

What was bower again? npm and bower are both package managers.
Right now I’m trying the publish the library to be used on a client side page.  I need to make sure I allow the library to be used as a module loader later.

#### Objectives Completed

{% for obj in page.objectives %}
* {{ obj }}
{% endfor %}