---
layout: post
title:  "Sprint #2.5 - Daily Scrum #16"
date:   2019-08-04
categories: scrum
tags: tetris_ai
sprintID: 2.5
day: Sunday
objectives:
 - only two more aflkjasdlkfja

---


<b>Product:</b> Tetris2P AI  
[Sprint Summary](/blog/projects/tetris-ai-sprint-2-5)

#### Daily Objectives

* Can’t sleep till I’ve published some version of the mini-game module so I can finish up the sprint
* Start looking into the Tetris AI again


#### Notes

Where did I leave off?  Slow progress last few days.  Oh, I realized it was difficult getting sudo permissions within crouton to execute a lot of npm commands, so I need to recreate the project on my desktop.  Need to add mainloop to the dependencies.  Where I left off was figuring out how to make node modules that use other node modules in their dependency list.  Am I supposed to require the mainloop object from the node modules?  Does this mean the node module isn’t meant to be used within its own project? Oh, I also need to learn how to use uh node modules installed locally

Ok so I need to use grunt now I think for uglify.  
A Gruntfile is comprised of the following parts:
* The "wrapper" function
* Project and task configuration
* Loading Grunt plugins and tasks
* Custom tasks

poggers, I got uglify kinda working now :)  
So I figured out how to add grunt tasks and use uglify.  BUT, I’m having an issue with exporting javascript class objects, saying:  
`Unexpected token: name <<gameObject>>, expected: punk <<;>>`

I’m gonna check the source files for mainloop.js, to see if there’s a solution I can borrow.  Apparently, uglify doesn’t support classes/ES6 yet?  Oh,  I installed a different branch of grunt uglify (harmony) and its working perfectly now :)  
Except now I need to change the project name since mini-engine is already taken.  What exactly is the project?  It’s a small game engine for developing games on a single HTML5 Canvas, using a similar workflow from Unity.  
Keywords:
* game 
* game engine
* html5 canvas
* unity 
* javascript

Canvas-engine? Mini5-engine?  I like mini5-engine.  We’re gonna go with that! :)  I can’t believe I almost used ‘mengine’ as a name.

AND WE’RE DONE! ‘Done’.  But I have my first node module published and working :)
To Do (for the node module):

1. Write documentation
2. Add examples
3. Add networking

To Do (for etc. stuff):

1. Write up Sprint
2. Start next Sprint
3. Tetris 2P
4. Tetris AI/ML Agent

#### Objectives Completed

{% for obj in page.objectives %}
* {{ obj }}
{% endfor %}