---
layout: post
title:  "Sprint #2.5 - Daily Scrum #10"
date:   2019-07-29
categories: scrum
tags: tetris_ai
sprintID: 2.5
day: Monday
objectives:
 - haha the jeff word

---


<b>Product:</b> Tetris2P AI  
[Sprint Summary](/blog/projects/tetris-ai-sprint-2-5)

#### Daily Objectives

* Do Sprite Rendering
* Create Demo Platformer
* Start Tetris

#### Notes

So I’m gonna start with a brand new spriteScene.  The goal of this scene is to first:

1. Make a rectangleObject for the ground
2. Make a playerObject
* Affected by gravity
* Moves with wasd
* Can jump
* Sits on the groundObject
3. Give the playerObject a sprite
4. Make a floatingGround object

Right now I’m assuming it’s colliding with the floor, but I need a more sure fire way to handle the collisions.

The object keeps disappearing for some reason. OH I need to set yvel back to 0.  
I need to make a function that detects the type of collision.

checkCollisions(aabbList) {}  
needs to return a list of objects with collisions within aabbList  
need to determine from which direction the collisions occurred  
so how do I format the return value?  
What’s the most convenient way to check for collisions?  
We can make a dictionary list of all the collisions like:

{% highlight javascript %}
{
	'all': [aabb1, aabb2],
	'left': [aabb1],
	'top': [aabb2],
}
{% endhighlight %}

BUT, what about corner collisions?  How would I want to resolve this issue for this game?
Depending on whether xDisp is greater than yDisp?
How many different collision orientations are there?
* top
* left 
* right 
* bottom 
* <s> top right </s>
* <s> bottom right </s>
* <s> bottom left </s>
* <s> top left </s>
* <s> inside </s>

Is there ever a difference with resolving seperate top → right, or right → top, collisions instead of a ‘top right’ collision?  It’s better to pre-label all the collisions, so the developer can just choose what order to resolve them. chainlinks omega

An overlap on both x and y axis needs to exist between AABB’s for a collision to exist.  Everyoverlap is a combination of an x and y overlap. WIthin each axis, you can overlap from both directions as long it over laps in one of the directions.

#### Objectives Completed

{% for obj in page.objectives %}
* {{ obj }}
{% endfor %}