---
layout: post
title:  "Sprint #2.5 - Daily Scrum #14"
date:   2019-08-02
categories: scrum
tags: tetris_ai
sprintID: 2.5
day: Friday
objectives:
 - went through both npm and grunt tutorials
 - learned how to create and add production and developer dependencies to a node package

---


<b>Product:</b> Tetris2P AI  
[Sprint Summary](/blog/projects/tetris-ai-sprint-2-5)

#### Daily Objectives

* Use grunt to create a minified build of the project
* Get project posted onto bower and npm
* Look up how namespaces in javascript work


#### Notes

Currently going through the npm tutorial: [https://docs.npmjs.com/creating-node-js-modules](https://docs.npmjs.com/creating-node-js-modules)  
Wow it actually worked :O

For now, I think I can ignore the entire ‘require’ portion, since that’s a nodejs server function, which is SORTA separate from actual npm?  By that I mean they’re not mutually exclusive.  You can use node_modules outside the context of a node server.

This is good though, publishing code is a lot easier than I thought it was gonna be :) What’s next now though.  I need to use grunt to minify files.  So let’s try and get that working.  Gruntfile’s are actually just javscript node_modules.  I’m gonna follow this tutorial [https://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile](https://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) later, and I think this already shows you how to use grunt plugins, specifically uglify, which is what I’m tryna use.  I’m gonna leave early and get groceries :)

Ok let’s get back at it.  Using the `--save-dev` when installing a package adds it to your ‘devDependencies’.

Ok so now I’m making the ‘official git repo’, what’s the directory supposed to look like and what are the required files?

1. Package.json
* Required for all npm modules
2. Gruntfile.js
* Required for running all grunt tasks, specifically uglify
3. src directory
4. build directory
5. demo/examples

I didn’t do much today :(  
But I did get ‘some’ progress so its fine  
Minecraft summer btw


#### Objectives Completed

{% for obj in page.objectives %}
* {{ obj }}
{% endfor %}