---
layout: post
title:  "Sprint #1 - Daily Scrum #08"
date:   2019-06-17
categories: scrum
tags: cms_api
day: Monday
objectives:
 - Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet

---

<b>Product:</b> CMS API  
[Sprint Summary](/blog/projects/cms-sprint-1)

#### Daily Objectives
* Draw the Diagrams
* Data Design

#### Notes
ahaha oops, technically sprints are supposed to be two weeks right :smiley:
ONE AND A HALF WEEK SPRINTS SMILEY

Wrapping Up a Sprint:

1. Make sure the website is updated
2. Make sure the next sprint is planned

What’s still left to do?

1. Data Design

OKAY SINCE I KEEP hecking PAUSING ALL MY heck LET’S MAKE A CALLBACK TO THE SPRINT GOALS  
WHAT ARE THE MAJOR SECTIONS FOR THE DESIGN DOCUMENT

1. WIREFRAMING AND UI - RESOLVED(MOSTLY)
2. SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE - RESOLVED
3. DATA DESIGN - IN PROGRESS
4. DESCRIPTION, FUNCTIONS AND PURPOSE - RESOLVED

Finish up the Architecture Discussion:  
Undistributed distributed microservice architecture :)  
Microservices - Management:

1. Roles and User Management
2. Site Repo Management
3. Content Management

Microservices - Web UI’s:

1. Rest API
2. GraphQL API
3. Admin UI
4. Site Hosting

Site Hosting Service:  
	I want to clear up and clarify some things with the site hosting service.  This is essentially hosting up a client’s STATIC site repo along with the project.  This will be completely decoupled from the site’s actual content (from the content management ‘microservice’), and be developed by the actual host/developer to a subdomain.  So for now we can ignore this since it’s something that can be attached later on?  Thinking about it, this doesn’t even have to be a thing that I have to consider/compensate for since its out of scope of my project. Well, the idea is to just make it clear where/how to include a client site to a subdomain.  But I’m not sure if there’s ways to route a subdomain to the main domain’s server.  Also I don’t need to worry about dynamically adding subdomains since its the role of the actual host/developer to do that. :smiley:

Data Design:  
Architecture Concerns First:

* For now we’re going with only one database first, later on we want the option of distributing the databases based on microservices
* Database → Bookshelf.js ORM → Microservice API Resources

So I want to define the resources for API MIcroservice first, then for the Bookshelf ORM, which should then directly translate to the database I think.

Let’s talk about GraphQL first again:

* GraphQL is a ‘schema’ that allows you to query exactly whatever you need
* You define a schema and are able to get exactly what you ask for out of it ?
* “GraphQL is a query language for your API”
* [https://graphql.org/graphql-js/running-an-express-graphql-server/](https://graphql.org/graphql-js/running-an-express-graphql-server/)
* first: Construct a schema, using GraphQL schema language
* second: Create a root that provides a resolver function for each API endpoint
* So there’s set ‘endpoints’ for the API, and you just make resolver functions
* You can include arguments for these API endpoints
* You can create class objects to represent object types and return instances of those
	* You can call class functions if a query returns an object of that type
	* [https://graphql.org/graphql-js/object-types/](https://graphql.org/graphql-js/object-types/)

So now what do I need to plan out for GraphQL?  
Define the entry points and the functions.  BUT, I need a way to allow for querying uh dynamic schemas?  If anything, I can make the content type name an argument instead.


#### Objectives Completed

{% for obj in page.objectives %}
* {{ obj }}
{% endfor %}

#### Lessons Learned

* hey

#### Plans for Tomorrow

* hey